The Kubernetes Dashboard Evolution blog post (#26668)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-22-02-The-Evolution-of-Kubernetes-Dashboard/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "The Evolution of Kubernetes Dashboard"
date: 2021-03-08
slug: the-evolution-of-kubernetes-dashboard
---

Authors: Marcin Maciaszczyk, Kubermatic & Sebastian Florek, Kubermatic

> In October 2020, the Kubernetes Dashboard officially turned five. As main project maintainers, we barely could believe that so much time has passed since our very first commit to the project. However, looking back with a bit of nostalgia, we had to realize that quite a lot has happened since then. Now it’s due time to celebrate “our baby” with a short recap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In October 2020, the Kubernetes Dashboard officially turned five. As main project maintainers, we can barely believe that so much time has passed since our very first commits to the project. However, looking back with a bit of nostalgia, we realize that quite a lot has happened since then. Now it’s due time to celebrate “our baby” with a short recap.
```
minor non-blocking nits :) Just think it helps improve the readability.

## How It All Began

> The initial idea behind the Kubernetes Dashboard project was to provide the web interface for Kubernetes. We wanted to reflect the kubectl functionality through an intuitive web UI. The big main benefit from using the UI is obviously to be able to quickly see things that do not work as expected (monitoring and troubleshooting). Also, the Kubernetes Dashboard is a great starting point for users that are new to the Kubernetes ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial idea behind the Kubernetes Dashboard project was to provide a web interface for Kubernetes. We wanted to reflect the kubectl functionality through an intuitive web UI. The main benefit from using the UI is to be able to quickly see things that do not work as expected (monitoring and troubleshooting). Also, the Kubernetes Dashboard is a great starting point for users that are new to the Kubernetes ecosystem.
```

Few other minor nits for readability.

{{< imgproc first-ui Fit "1000x900" >}}
The First Version of the User Interface
{{< /imgproc >}}

{{< imgproc along-the-way-ui Fit "1000x900" >}}
Prototype of the New User Interface
{{< /imgproc >}}

{{< imgproc current-ui Fit "1000x700" >}}
The Current User Interface
{{< /imgproc >}}

As you can see, the initial look and feel of the project were completely different from the current one. We have changed the design multiple times. The same has happened with the code itself.

## Growing Up - The Big Migration

At [the beginning of 2018](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/pull/2727), we reached a point where AngularJS was getting closer to the end of its life, while the new Angular versions were published quite often. A lot of the libraries and the modules that we were using were following the trend. That forced us to spend a lot of the time rewriting the frontend part of the project to make it work with newer technologies.

> The migration came with many benefits like being able to refactor a lot of the code, introduce design patterns, reduce code complexity, and benefit from the new modules. However, you can imagine that the scale of the migration was huge. Luckily, there were a number of contributions from the community helping us with the resource support, new Kubernetes version support, i18n, and some other things. After many long days and nights, we finally released the [first beta version](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta1) in July 2019, followed by the [2.0 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.0.0) in April 2020 — our baby had grown up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The migration came with many benefits like being able to refactor a lot of the code, introduce design patterns, reduce code complexity, and benefit from the new modules. However, you can imagine that the scale of the migration was huge. Luckily, there were a number of contributions from the community helping us with the resource support, new Kubernetes version support, i18n, and much more. After many long days and nights, we finally released the [first beta version](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta1) in July 2019, followed by the [2.0 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.0.0) in April 2020 — our baby had grown up.
```
non-blocking nit

## Where Are We Standing in 2021?

> Due to limited resources, unfortunately, we were not able to offer extensive support for many different Kubernetes versions. So, we’ve decided to always try and support the latest Kubernetes version available at the time of the Kubernetes Dashboard release. The latest release, [Dashboard v2.2.0](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.2.0) provides support for Kubernetes v1.20.

Author: I have updated latest release info to `v2.2.0` as it was released recently.

Reviewer 2: How does it work with the date of the post?

Author: Date of the release 18.02
Date of the blog post 22.02

Reviewer 3: Once this is ready for review we can push a commit to match the date it'll go live.

We can accept future-dated articles but past dated ones I think we prefer not to (there's no CI test or anything, it's just odd for readers when an article turns up today that says it was published last week).

On top of that, we put in a great deal of effort into [improving resource support](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/issues/5232). Meanwhile, we do offer support for most of the Kubernetes resources. Also, the Kubernetes Dashboard supports multiple languages: English, German, French, Japanese, Korean, Chinese (Traditional, Simplified, Traditional Hong Kong). Persian and Russian localizations are currently in progress. Moreover, we are working on the support for 3rd party themes and the design of the app in general. As you can see, quite a lot of things are going on.

Luckily, we do have regular contributors with domain knowledge who are taking care of the project, updating the Helm charts, translations, Go modules, and more. But as always, there could be many more hands on deck. So if you are thinking about contributing to Kubernetes, keep us in mind ;)

## What’s Next

> The Kubernetes Dashboard has now been growing and prospering for more than 5 years now. It provides the community with an intuitive Web UI, thereby decreasing the complexity of Kubernetes and increasing its accessibility to new community members. We are proud of what the project has achieved so far, but this is by far not the end. These are our priorities for the future:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes Dashboard has been growing and prospering for more than 5 years now. It provides the community with an intuitive Web UI, thereby decreasing the complexity of Kubernetes and increasing its accessibility to new community members. We are proud of what the project has achieved so far, but this is by far not the end. These are our priorities for the future:
```

*   Keep providing support for the new Kubernetes versions
*   Keep improving the support for the existing resources
*   Keep working on auth system improvements
*   [Rewrite the API to use gRPC and shared informers](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/pull/5449): This will allow us to improve the performance of the application but, most importantly, to support live updates coming from the Kubernetes project. It is one of the most requested features from the community.
*   Split the application into two containers, one with the UI and the second with the API running inside.

## The Kubernetes Dashboard in Numbers

*   Initial commit made on October 16, 2015
*   Over 100 million pulls from Dockerhub since the v2 release
*   8 supported languages and the next 2 in progress
*   Over 3360 closed PRs
*   Over 2260 closed issues
*   100% coverage of the supported core Kubernetes resources
*   Over 9000 stars on GitHub
*   Over 237 000 lines of code

## Join Us

> As mentioned earlier, we are currently looking for more people to help us further develop and grow the project. We are open to contributions in multiple areas, i.e., [issues with help wanted label](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22). Please feel free to reach out via GitHub or the #sig-ui channel in the Kubernetes Slack.

Reviewer 3: _optional tweak_
```suggestion
As mentioned earlier, we are currently looking for more people to help us further develop and grow the project. We are open to contributions in multiple areas, i.e., [issues with help wanted label](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22). Please feel free to reach out via GitHub or the #sig-ui channel in the [Kubernetes Slack](https://slack.k8s.io/).
```
?

---
layout: blog
title: "The Evolution of Kubernetes Dashboard"
date: 2021-02-22
slug: the-evolution-of-kubernetes-dashboard
---

> Authors: Marcin Maciaszczyk and Sebastian Florek, Fullstack Engineers at Kubermatic

Reviewer 3: Most commonly we attribute like this:
```suggestion
Authors: Marcin Maciaszczyk, Kubermatic & Sebastian Florek, Kubermatic
```

<div class="thumbnail" style="width: 80%;margin: auto">
  <a href="./first-ui.png"><img src="./first-ui.png" alt="The First Version of the User Interface"></a>
  <div class="caption" style="text-align: center; padding-top: .5em">
    The First Version of the User Interface
  </div>
</div>

<div class="thumbnail" style="width: 80%;margin: auto; padding-top: 2em">
  <a href="./along-the-way-ui.png"><img src="./along-the-way-ui.png" alt="Prototype of the New User Interface"></a>
  <div class="caption" style="text-align: center; padding-top: .5em">
    Prototype of the New User Interface
  </div>
</div>

<div class="thumbnail" style="width: 80%;margin: auto; padding: 2em 0">
  <a href="./current-ui.png"><img src="./current-ui.png" alt="The Current User Interface"></a>
  <div class="caption" style="text-align: center; padding-top: .5em">
    The Current User Interface
  </div>

> </div>

Reviewer 3: Hi

I'd prefer to see images defined in Markdown rather than done using rendered HTML.

We can help you make use of Markdown and also Hugo shortcodes so that the article doesn't define HTML directly.

Author: I have tried to use original markdown/hugo, but with the current theme it wouldn't really allow to center images + use nice caption for them. I am open to suggestions here.

Another option was to add a custom shortcode with custom styling that would allow to better handle image positioning and caption, but it would require more extensive changes outside of only the blog directory, so I was hesitant to do so.

Reviewer 3: Is `imgproc` from Docsy good enough?

https://www.docsy.dev/docs/adding-content/shortcodes/#imgproc

Author: It's ok'ish I guess. It is quite limited and requires manually tweaking the size (width, height). Also the position argument `left|center|right` does not seem to work. I have tried to make it look as best as possible given the limited functionality.

The migration came with many benefits like being able to refactor a lot of the code, introduce design patterns, reduce code complexity, and benefit from the new modules. However, you can imagine that the scale of the migration was huge. Luckily, there were a number of contributions from the community helping us with the resource support, new Kubernetes version support, i18n, and some other things. After many long days and nights, we finally released the [first beta version](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.0.0-beta1) in July 2019, followed by the [2.0 release](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.0.0) in April 2020 — our baby had grown up.

## Where Are We Standing in 2021?

Due to limited resources, unfortunately, we were not able to offer extensive support for many different Kubernetes versions. So, we’ve decided to always try and support the latest Kubernetes version available at the time of the Kubernetes Dashboard release. The latest release, [Dashboard v2.1.0](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/releases/tag/v2.1.0) provides support for Kubernetes v1.20.

> On top of that, we put in a great deal of effort into [improving resource support](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/issues/5232). Meanwhile, we do offer support for most of the Kubernetes resources. Also, the Kubernetes Dashboard supports multiple languages: English, German, French, Japanese, Korean, Chinese (Traditional, Simplified, Traditional Hong Kong). Persian and Russian language translations are currently in work. Moreover, we are working on the support for 3rd party themes and the design of the app in general. As you can see, quite a lot of things are going on.

Reviewer 3: I would write:
```suggestion
On top of that, we put in a great deal of effort into [improving resource support](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/issues/5232). Meanwhile, we do offer support for most of the Kubernetes resources. Also, the Kubernetes Dashboard supports multiple languages: English, German, French, Japanese, Korean, Chinese (Traditional, Simplified, Traditional Hong Kong). Persian and Russian localizations are currently in progress. Moreover, we are working on the support for 3rd party themes and the design of the app in general. As you can see, quite a lot of things are going on.
```

*   [Rewrite the API to use gRPC and shared informers](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/pull/5449): This will allow us to improve the performance of the application but, most importantly, to support live updates coming from the Kubernetes project. It is one of the most requested features from the community.
*   Split the application into two containers, one with the UI and the second with the API running inside.

## The Kubernetes Dashboard in Numbers

*   Initial commit made on October 16, 2015
*   Over 100 million pulls from Dockerhub since the v2 release
*   8 supported languages and the next 2 in progress
*   Over 3360 closed PRs
*   Over 2260 closed issues
*   100% coverage of the supported core Kubernetes resources
*   Over 9000 stars on GitHub
*   Over 237 000 lines of code

## Join Us

As mentioned earlier, we are currently looking for more people to help us further develop and grow the project. We are open to contributions in multiple areas, i.e., [issues with help wanted label](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22). Please feel free to reach out via GitHub or the #sig-ui channel in the Kubernetes Slack.

> Learn more about [Kubermatic’s upstream contributions and open source projects](https://www.kubermatic.com/company/community/).

Reviewer 3: With the [CNCF website guidelines](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/website-guidelines.md) in mind, I strongly recommend revising or removing this paragraph and hyperlink.

> It is OK to say that, e.g., “Prometheus was originally created by Soundcloud” or “Kubernetes builds upon 15 years of experience of running production workloads at Google,” but the origin company should not otherwise be referred to on the project homepage.

That's talking about home pages, but I'd like to see the same intent captured in how we publish articles on the blog. 
So, for example, “The Kubernetes Dashboard was originally created by Google” would be fine, but this link to Kubermatic feels like it wouldn't be.

See the [Kubernetes content guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/) for more on this.

Author: Sure, that's totally understandable. We weren't sure if this would be accepted anyway. I will simply remove that part.
